
This is my personal reflection of the article Communicating Mathematics (1995) by Charles Wells.


The article puts a lot of emphasis on the case of Syntax (how it is written, that is, the expression) vs 
Semantik (the meaning of what is written). 
From a semantik point, a mental picture of the statement is created. I'll borrow the example from the article.
(x > z) => ((x > y) v (y > z)).
This example says that if there exist a x strictly greater than z, than there exist a y that is either 
greater than x and/or less than z. 
For a syntactic proof, one would use rules within mathematics set theory and show that the statement must hold. 
A semantik proof however would be to use ones own mental picture and demonstrate that the above example must
always hold. The article in questions semantik proof was to picture x and z as numbers in the real number axis. 
Thus if one draw the axis number axis and place x and z, y will always satisfy ((x > y) v (y > z)). 

Which form is the most optimal is arguable but the semantik proof is usually seen as more "understandable" while a syntactic proof is hard to follow. 
However a semantik proof is just ones own mental intepretation and will not necessary hold for all mathematicians. 

The author finished the section with his own thought that using a syntax approach will 
make a difference for the better to the students. 

For my own thought about this subject in terms of mathematics, I find myself in divided between the two with 
around 40 syntax and 60 semantik. For the example above, as mentioned by the author, the semantik approach 
have only proven the statement for the real set while the syntactic proof is 
correct for all ordered set. Thus I would find the syntactic proof to be correct because 
the semantic proof would only cover a single case. 

Now, I believe that to have the students in question to even benefit from a syntactic approach of teaching, 
the students need to be familiar with the language. Which is probably why the project DSLofMath was created.
I will leave further details as a discussion within the group.

The base line of my conjuncture is that the students will ultimately benefit more from a syntactic approach ->
Student are not familiar with proof written in the mathematic language ->
Introduce DSLofMath which is written from a programming language which is the student are famliliar with ->
The students will now be able to find syntactic mathematical proofs more comprehensable. 

